---
description: Release Notes for 2018
---

# 2018

## November 20, 2018

The **Adobe Campaign Classic** extension version 1.0.0 is now available for iOS!

This extension enables the delivery and tracking of push notifications to mobile app users from Adobe Campaign Classic.

Please note that this extension is **only** for Adobe Campaign Classic and will **not** work with Adobe Campaign Standard.

**Key Features**

In this release, you can:

* Send push tokens with information about the user and the device to Adobe Campaign Classic so that users can enable push messaging to mobile app users who opt in to notifications.
* Send additional custom profile data to Adobe Campaign Classic, which allows personalized push notifications.
* Track the receipt of push messages (impressions) in Android apps and silent notifications in iOS apps.
* Track when users click on push notifications.

Here is some additional information:

This extension is an alternative to the stand-alone Campaign Classic SDK. It allows Experience Platform SDK users to enable push messaging from Campaign Classic without installing the Campaign Classic SDK separately.

## November 16, 2018

The following updates were made to the Mobile Core extension:

**Android version 1.0.5**

* This version now includes the _proguard-rules.pro_ config file.
* Minor bug fixes.

## September 27, 2018

Adobe Experience Platform SDKs are live!

* Version 1.0.0 of the Experience Platform SDKs were released for the Mobile Core, Analytics, Audience Manager, and Adobe Target extensions.

