---
description: Archived Release Notes for 2019
---

# 2019

## November 8, 2019

The following update was made in this release:

**iOS Mobile Services 1.0.4**

* Fixed a bug where the iOS fullscreen message was unable to load cached images.

## October 30, 2019

The following updates were made in this release:

**Android Campaign 1.0.2**

* Fixed a bug where full-screen message interaction tracking was not working when a message was dismissed.
* Added support for local notification message metrics (impression, open, and click).
* Added support for message frequency rules (show once and until clicked) for local notification messages.

## October 28, 2019

The following change was made in this release:

**Android Campaign Standard 1.1.0**

* In the tags extension, added the ability to reset the `pkey`.

**iOS Analytics 2.2.1**

* Analytics response content events now contain two new fields:

  * `hitHost`
  * `hitUrl`

  These fields contain the host and URL of the of the hit responsible for dispatching the response event.

**Android Analytics 1.2.2**

* Analytics response content events now contain two new fields:

  * `hitHost`
  * `hitUrl`

  These fields contain the host and URL of the of the hit responsible for dispatching the response event.

## October 25, 2019

The following updates were made in this release:

**Android Core 1.4.5 (Released with sdk-core version 1.4.6 on Maven)**

* Added support for attach data rules consequence.
* Added support for a boolean-type comparison for the `Exist` or `Not Exist` rules condition.
* Fixed a bug where the `Exist` and `Not Exist` rules condition might not work for a `List` or `Map` type value.
* Fixed a bug that, when fetching the remote config from Launch, might cause a crash on some Android devices.
* Fixed a bug that, when the data URL of an activity did not contain valid schema, might cause a crash.

**Android Identity 1.1.2**

* Fixed a bug where the default Experience Cloud Server hostname is now used when no value is configured in the SDK.
* Fixed a bug where multiple custom identifiers with same `idType` value were synced with the Visitor ID Service.
* Custom visitor identifiers can now be cleared from the SDK by providing a null/empty identifier value for a previously synced `idType`.

## October 7, 2019

The following updates were made in this release:

**Android Analytics 1.2.1**

* Fixed a bug where, on start up, the Analytics database was being modified by multiple threads.

## October 2, 2019

The following updates were made in this release:

**Android Target 1.1.3**

* The Target session ID and Edge Host will now be persisted in Shared Preferences. If there is no activity for the configured `target.sessionTimeout`, these variables will be reset. The default session timeout value is 30 minutes.    
* Fixed an issue where the null `at_property` key, which was passed in mbox parameters, was being sent in Target requests.

## September 17, 2019

The following updates were made in this release:

**Android Core 1.4.4 (Released with sdk-core version 1.4.5 on Maven)**

* Starting in API level 16, notifications now support `BigTextStyle`.

  This enables long notifications to be displayed without being truncated.

* Fixed the locale string in the HTTP User-Agent to follow the BCP 47 specification.

## September 10, 2019

The following updates were made in this release:

**Android Analytics 1.2.0**

* Added the following new pieces of data when reporting a crash:
  * `previousosversion`
  * `previousappid`.
* Added support for the Griffon debug API.
* The `global.ssl` configuration settings are ignored, and SSL is enabled by default.

## September 9, 2019

The following updates were made in this release:

**Android Identity 1.1.1 (Released with sdk-core version 1.4.4 on Maven)**

* Custom identifiers with null or empty IDs are ignored when calling the `syncIdentifier` or `syncIdentifiers` APIs because the Visitor ID Service does not support these identifiers.
* The `syncIdentifiers` API call is ignored when there is an empty Map.
* The duplicate advertising identifier value is removed from the Identity-shared state when `MobileCore.setAdvertisingIdentifier` is called with a new value.
* The `global.ssl` configuration settings are ignored, and SSL is enabled by default.
* Fixed an issue where `appendVisitorInfoForURL` uses the wrong query delimiter when the source URL contains a question mark in its fragment identifier component.

**Android Griffon Bridge 1.0.3**

* You can use the Android Griffon Bridge version 1.0.3 with the Android Griffon SDK version 1.0.0.

**Android Griffon SDK 1.0.0**

* Starting in version 1.0.3, there is a new Artifact split from the Android Griffon Bridge.

## Aug 30, 2019

The following updates were made in this release:

**Android Mobile Services 1.0.1**

* Added the ability to trigger an In-App message that is based on Analytics rules consequences..

## August 15, 2019

The following updates were made in this release:

**Android Core 1.4.3**

* Fixed a bug where the database operation might fail on Android Q (Android 10).
* Fixed a crash that was happening on Android versions 8.0 and 8.1 and was related to Android's `TimeZoneNamesImpl`.

## August 6, 2019

The following updates were made in this release:

**Android Core 1.4.2**

* Fixed a bug where the replacement value for token `{%~timestampz%}` might be created with the wrong locale.
* Added `getUniqueIdentifier()` to the `Event` object.

  This value is a globally unique identifier for every `Event`.

**Android Target 1.1.2**

* `target.previewEnabled`, a new configuration Boolean key, has been added. This key is used to enable/disable Target Preview.

  If key is not provided, preview is enabled by default.

* Fixed an issue in Android where Target Preview links were decoded twice, which lead to an error preview page.

## July 17, 2019

The following updates were made in this release:

**Android Core 1.4.1**

* Fixed an issue that, when making Analytics requests during the switch of Android activities, might result in incorrect Customer Perspective (CP) values.

## July 16, 2019

Adobe Experience Platform SDK for WeChat Mini Programs Beta

The Adobe Experience Platform SDK now supports WeChat Mini Programs. This beta release helps Adobe Analytics customers who want to track the behavioral usage of Mini Programs. For more information, see [the documentation](../platform-minis/index.md) or contact your Adobe customer success manager.

## July 10, 2019

The following updates were made in this release:

**Android Griffon Bridge 1.0.2**

* Fixed bug where wildcard listener wasn't working.

## June 28, 2019

The following updates were made in this release:

**Android Griffon Bridge 1.0.1**

* Initial beta release.

## June 27, 2019

The following updates were made in this release:

**Android Target 1.1.1**

* Use the `target.propertyToken` configuration setting to configure the `at_property_token` that is generated from the Target UI, instead of passing the token as an mbox parameter.
* Fixed an issue where JSON offers were not being returned as content but instead default content was served.

## June 3, 2019

The following updates were made in this release:

**Android Core 1.4.0**

* Fixed the migration of Custom Analytics ID from v4.
* Added the `collectMessageInfo` API to collect push/local notification-related data.
* Forced the \_\*\*\_usage of TLS v1.1/v1.2 on the Android 4.x devices (Android API version from 16-19).

**Android Signal 1.0.2**

* Fixed an issue where the SSL connection was not kept alive.

**Android Identity 1.1.0**

* Added the `getUrlVariables` API to retrieve Visitor Identifiers as URL-encoded query strings for hybrid mobile applications.

## May 20, 2019

The following updates were made in this release:

**Android Core 1.3.1**

* Added support for ISO 8601 timestamp for Rules Engine token replacement, you can use the placeholder `~timestampz`
* Fixed the bug where `MobileCore.getSdkIdentities` didn't return the correct value for Analytics visitor identifier (VID).
* Added support for migrating Privacy status from v4 to v5, if it was manually set with v4 SDK.
* Fixed issue where retrieving Privacy status may get delayed when device is offline.
* Added support for loading cached configuraiton and cached rules on subsequent launch.

**Android Identity 1.0.5**

* Fixed issue where the Analytics visitor identifier (VID) was not included in the `Identity.appendVisitorInfoForURL` callback value.

**Android Campaign 1.0.1**

* Added enhanced alert reporting with clickthrough URL support in the Campaign response event.
* Added support for a custom title in local notifications.

## May 15, 2019

**Android Target 1.1.0**

* Upgraded the Target Delivery APIs to latest v1 delivery endpoint.
* Introduced `retrieveLocationContent`, a new API that retrieves content for multiple Target mbox locations simultaneously without increasing the reporting count for prefetch cases.
* Introduced `locationsDisplayed`, a new API that helps Target record location to display events.

  This API should only be used for prefetch scenarios.

* Provided support for `TargetParameters` which is a helper class that combines parameters such as `mboxParameters`, `profileParameters`, `orderParameters`, and `productParameters`.
* New `prefetchContent` and `locationClicked` APIs which accept TargetParameters.

## May 6, 2019

**Android Core 1.3.0**

* The `MobileCore.start()` API should only get called once, and the SDK ignores the subsequent calls to this API.
* Added an internal API for React Native support.

## April 26, 2019

The following updates were made in this release:

**Android Core 1.2.2**

* Fixed a bug that prevented URLs from being correctly opened on some Android versions.

## April 16, 2019

Project Griffon is now available for beta access!

Project Griffon is a new, innovative product from Adobe to help you easily inspect, validate, debug data collection and experiences for your mobile app. Developed for app product managers and developers, Project Griffon ensures that your app is correctly implemented, which allows you to focus on creating engaging experiences.

Project Griffon is in beta, and the use of this beta release requires you to accept the terms outlined in [https://assurance.adobe.com](https://assurance.adobe.com).

If you need access, go to [https://assurance.adobe.com](https://assurance.adobe.com) and [register your interest](https://forms.office.com/Pages/ResponsePage.aspx?id=Wht7-jR7h0OUrtLBeN7O4UJN9zAhIEhJr3PBfyMf9wdUMjNHTjVCVUJXUDM0VUIzOUFWMk9RNlBLRC4u).

To learn more about Project Griffon, here are the links to the [documentation](../platform-assurance/index.md):

* [Set up Project Griffon](../platform-assurance/set-up.md) 
* [Using Project Griffon](../platform-assurance/tutorials/index.md) 

## March 21, 2019

The **Adobe Campaign Standard** extension version 1.0.0 is now available for Android!

* This extension allows you to deliver and track in-app messages (broadcast and personalized) and push notifications to mobile app users from Adobe Campaign Standard.

**Android Core 1.2.1**

* Added protection around null results when `toString` is called on Intent extras data.

## March 20, 2019

The following updates were made in this release:

**Android Core 1.2.0**

The following updates were made to the Mobile Core extension in Android version 1.2.0:

**Configuration**

* If there is no cached configuration available, you can fetch the configuration after a network restore.
* Added environment-aware support, which allows you to define dev and stage environments in a property.

  **Important**: This overrides the config properties that were based on the default environment.

**Core**

* Added the `MobileCore.getApplication` API, which allows third-party extension developers access the application context.
* Added the `MobileCore.log` API, which allows third-party extensions and application developers to log messages and use the Mobile SDK `LoggingMode` to select the verbosity of the logs.
* You can also use the `MobileCore.getLogLevel` API to retrieve the current `LoggingMode` that was set in the SDK.

**Android Identity 1.0.4**

* You can regenerate the MID when privacy settings change from opted out to opted in/opt unknown in the same session.

## March 14, 2019

**Android Core 1.1.2**

* Resolved an issue that might result in a crash when the underlying Analytics database was corrupted.

## March 7, 2019

**Android Core 1.1.1**

* Resolved an issue that could result in a crash when the underlying Analytics database was corrupted.

## March 1, 2019

The following updates were made in this release:

**Android Core 1.1.0**

* The `setSmallIcon` and `setLargeIcon` APIs were added.

**Android Analytics 1.1.1**

* Use the `analytics.launchHitDelay` configuration setting to indicate how long to wait before Analytics launch hits are sent.

## February 28, 2019

The following updates were made to the **Adobe Target extension**:

The Target Client Code is now automatically added based on your Experience Cloud organization.

* If no code is found, you can type it in.
* If multiple codes are found, you can select the code from the drop-down list.

## February 20, 2019

The Adobe **Campaign Standard** extension version 1.0.0 is now available!

This extension allows you to deliver and track in-app messages (broadcast and personalized) and push notifications to mobile app users from Adobe Campaign Standard.
