---
description: Archived Release Notes for 2020
---

# 2020

## December 18, 2020

### All iOS extensions

The AEP SDKs are now distributed using XCFrameworks in order to support hardware with the new Apple M1 architecture while maintaining support for existing Intel architecture.

**IMPORTANT:** Upgrading to XCFrameworks distribution requires Xcode 12.0 or newer

**IMPORTANT:** If using Cocoapods, upgrading to the XCFrameworks distribution requires Cocoapods 1.10.0 or newer

Below is a list of the new versions for each extension:

* iOS Core 2.9.0
  * iOS Identity 2.5.0
  * iOS Lifecycle 2.2.0
  * iOS Signal 2.2.0
* iOS Analytics 2.5.0
* iOS Assurance 1.1.0
* iOS Audience 2.2.0
* iOS Campaign 1.1.0
* iOS Campaign Classic 2.1.0
* iOS Media 2.3.0
* iOS Mobile Services 1.1.0
* iOS Places 1.4.0
* iOS Target 2.2.0
* iOS User Profile 2.2.0

## December 3, 2020

### Android Identity 1.2.2

* Fix issue where push identifier had incorrect value in Identity shared state when `setPushIdentifer` was not called on each launch.

  Released with sdk-core version 1.5.8

## November 24, 2020

### Android Assurance 1.0.1

* Fixed a bug that triggered ANR (Application not responsive) error while initializing webview.

## November 9, 2020

### Android Audience 1.1.0

* Added support for AdobeCallbackWithError for APIs getVisitorProfile, signalWithData.
* Added changes to publish Audience shared state on EventHub boot.

## October 7, 2020

### Android Media 2.1.0

* Changed the **default** Ad tracking granularity to **10 seconds**. Added configuration key to enable 1 sec ad tracking.
* **Restart** tracking session every **24 hours** for long running sessions.

## October 05, 2020

The following updates were made in this release:

### Android Assurance 1.0.0

* General availability and release of [Adobe Experience Platform Assurance](../platform-assurance/index.md) that enables capabilities of [Project Griffon](../platform-assurance/index.md)

### Android Analytics 1.2.6

* Added error callbacks for following APIs getQueueSize, getTrackingIdentifier and getVisitorIdentifier. Instance of AdobeCallbackWithError can be passed to these API's as an argument to receive error callbacks.
* Added an enhancement to append previous app id and previous os version to backdated session info hits.
* Changes to read from Assurance shared state.

## September 29, 2020

The following updates were made in this release:

### Android Campaign 1.0.7

* Added an enhancement to reduce the number of registration requests sent to Campaign. There is now a default 7 day registration delay which starts after the most recent registration request sent to Campaign is successful.
* Added configuration settings to change the default registration delay or to pause registration requests.

## September 23, 2020

### Android Project Griffon 1.2.1

* Fixed dropped events and connection termination issues caused by exceeding maximum data capacity of a websocket connection.

## September 15, 2020

### Android Project Griffon 1.2.0

* Fixed an issue caused by when extension unregistration and Shared State read events happen concurrently.
* New modified event structure is used to communicate with backend servers.
* New client details such as OSName, OS version, Model name, battery status, screen size, current location permission, low power mode and application configuration are now sent as a part of client event.
* The following public APIs are removed: attemptReconnect, sendEvent, sendBlob, loglocalUILevel and registerListenerForVendor.
* Improvements to client connection error screen to provide relevant error messages and descriptions.

## September 11, 2020

### Android 11 Compatibility

* Latest extension versions of Adobe Experience Platform Mobile SDK are now certified for Android 11. Please see [Current SDK Versions](../current-sdk-versions.md) for more information on the latest version numbers.

## September 9, 2020

### Android Core 1.5.7

* Fixed the issue where it may fail to save caches when `Etag` contains special characters.

### Android Identity 1.2.1

* Report extension details to Mobile Core for improved logging and Griffon support.
* Identity shared state now gets updated in current session on server response changes for blob or locationHint.
* In order to improve the Analytics push tracking reports, the push notification preferences (`a.push.optin`) are now forwarded to Analytics whenever the value passed to `setPushIdentifier` is different than the previous time it was called.
* Improved existing log messages and added additional logging to assist with debugging.

### Android Lifecycle 1.0.6

* Added previous application Id and OS version info to lifecycle event data.

## September 8, 2020

### Android Campaign 1.0.6

* Added support for weak ETags.

## August 31, 2020

### Android Target 1.1.6

* Added support for configuration option `target.server` which enables a custom host to be used for Target requests. This configuration option is available in the tag extension starting with version 2.4.0.
* Public APIs now support error handling via passing `AdobeCallbackWithError`.

## August 4, 2020

### Android Analytics 1.2.5

* Fixed TimeSinceLaunch not getting reported in analytics hits.
* Fixed a race condition which was causing a null pointer crash.

## August 3, 2020

### Android Campaign 1.0.5

* Added ETag support for Campaign rules download requests.

## July 31, 2020

### Android Core 1.5.6

* Fixed an issue where null values in rules consequences was not respected.
* Some internal fixes.

### Android Lifecycle 1.0.5

* Session start time is now added to the shared state of Lifecycle extension.

### Android Mobile Services 1.0.5

* Fixed an issue where acquisition data may not be correctly processed.

## July 21, 2020

### Mobile Core tag Extension 2.1.15

* Added Modify Data action for tag Rules. See more information on usage here: [Modify data in SDK events](../user-guides/modify-data.md).
* Update requires Mobile Core Android minimum version 1.5.5

## July 17, 2020

### Android Audience 1.0.2

* Fixed an issue where UUID was not returned in getSdkIdentities API response.
* Fixed an issue where customer visitor IDs were missing from Audience signals.

### Android Media 2.0.1

* Fixed a crash when configuring incorrect collection API server.

## July 16, 2020

### Android Core 1.5.5

* Updated the wrapper type strings used by SDK plugins.
* Added support for the token `~timestampp` which complies with the Adobe Experience Platform Edge Network.
* Added support for [Modify Data](../user-guides/modify-data.md) rules.

## June 12, 2020

### Android Project Griffon 1.1.7

* Fixed a bug where Griffon unregisters its wildcard listeners during automatic session reconnect.
* IntegrationId in Griffon's shared state now has format sessionId\|clientId
* Griffon pin pad UI support for devices with cutouts from Android version 28 and above.

## May 28, 2020

The following updates were made in this release:

### Android Core 1.5.4

* Added the capability for rules engine to reprocess the events that are dispatched before rules are loaded.
* Fixed a bug where the shared state of event hub was not properly created.
* Fixed a security issue.

## May 22, 2020

### Android Project Griffon 1.1.6

* Changes to support Griffon on Xamarin and Unity.
* Griffon extension is optimized to unregister itself, when it does not obtain session's deeplink URL within 5 seconds of app launch.
* Fixed a bug where user is not able to disconnect when griffon attempts to reconnect with expired socket URL.
* Fixed a bug that prevents pinpad screen from closing when Mobile SDK is not configured.
* Improved logging.

## May 19, 2020

### Android Media 2.0.0

* Uses media collection endpoint for tracking both streaming and downloaded content.
* Added support for player state tracking

## April 24, 2020

The following updates were made in this release:

### Android Campaign 1.0.4

* Changes in how fullscreen in-app messages are displayed inline with WebView security recommendations in Mobile Core 1.5.2 release.
* Report extension details to Mobile Core for improved logging and Griffon support.
* Fixed an image caching related bug, where cached images used to get deleted.

## April 22, 2020

The following updates were made in this release:

### Android Project Griffon 1.1.5

* Fix bug where pinCode entry activity fails to show when another application's activity is started at the same time.
* Blob upload services uses production URL with multiple environment support.
* ClientId is shared as a query parameter to socket URL rather than tagging each Griffon event.
* Griffon socket connection now authenticates against organization Id.

## April 21, 2020

The following updates were made in this release:

### Android Core 1.5.3

* Fixed a performance issue where the initialization of SDK extensions could block the main thread for a while.

## April 9, 2020

The following updates were made in this release:

### Android Core 1.5.2

* Fixed several security issues.
* Improved existing log messages and added additional logging to assist with debugging.

### Android Lifecycle 1.0.3

* Fixed a bug where the `Resolution` was captured in non-English numerals.

## April 7, 2020

The following updates were made in this release:

### Android Project Griffon 1.1.4

* Fixed a bug where Griffon pinpad screen may disappear behind an activity.
* Griffon SDK attempts to seamlessly reconnect to its session on network interruption.
* Fixed a bug that prevented to establish Griffon connection on Android API 27 and below.
* Added a new Plugin interface method that gets called on Griffon session termination.

## March 30, 2020

### Android UserProfile 1.1.0

* Added an API `removeUserAttributes` to remove multiple attributes.
* Added an API `getUserAttributes` to get user attributes with provided keys.

## March 19, 2020

The following updates were made in this release:

### Android Campaign Classic 1.0.1

* Report extension details to Mobile Core for improved logging and Griffon support.
* Fixed a security issue where hex conversion method was vulnerable to hash collisions.

## March 11, 2020

The following updates were made in this release:

### Android Target 1.1.5

* Report extension details to Mobile Core for improved logging and Griffon support.
* Target Session Id will now be added as a context data parameter `a.target.sessionId` in the internal Analytics for Target hit sent to Adobe Analytics.
* Fixed an issue, where on app close and relaunch, previously persisted tntId was not being sent in Target requests.

## March 10, 2020

The following updates were made in this release:

### Android Project Griffon 1.1.3

* Added support for capturing device screenshot.
* Added support for forwarding application logs to Griffon.
* Added support for editing loaded launch configuration through Griffon.
* Added support for dispatching fake events from Griffon.
* Unique clientID and sessionID are now shared through Griffon shared state.
* Shared state contents of all the registered extensions are now forwarded to Griffon.
* Added constructors to create GriffonEvent with vendor, type, payload, and timestamp.
* Bug fixes.

## February 27, 2020

The following updates were made in this release:

### Android Core 1.5.1

* Fixed a bug where AppID used non-arabic numbers as app versions.
* Fixed a bug where app version was not included in AppID on Android 9 or above devices.
* Added Wrapper Type for Flutter.

### Android Signal 1.0.3

* Logging improvement
* Report extension details to Mobile Core for improved logging and Griffon support.

### Android Lifecycle 1.0.3

* Logging improvement
* Report extension details to Mobile Core for improved logging and Griffon support.

## February 13, 2020

The following updates were made in this release:

### Android Analytics 1.2.4

* Fixed an issue which, was causing some hits to be delayed.
* Fixed an issue where `AnalyticsResponse` events were not being dispatched even when the debug API was enabled.
* Report extension details to Mobile Core for improved logging and Griffon support.
* Improved existing log messages and added additional logging to assist with debugging.

## February 4, 2020

The following updates were made in this release:

### Android Core 1.5.0

* Fixed a cursor leak.
* Mobile Core now shares the list of enabled extensions and their meta data through shared state.
* Fixed an issue where the advertising identifier was duplicated in the response to the `MobileCore.getSDKIdentifiers` API.
* Added support for overriding internal network stack with customer-provided code.
* Added a new interface with failure callback, `AdobeCallbackWithError`, which can be used with the `MobileCore.getPrivacyStatus` and `MobileCore.getSdkIdentities` methods.

  We plan to gradually add the ability to enable failure callback to the other extensions.

### Android Identity 1.2.0

* Added support for the optional `AdobeCallbackWithError` callback that is available in Android Core version 1.5.0 on the following APIs:

  * `appendVisitorInfoForURL`
  * `getUrlVariables`
  * `getIdentifiers`
  * `getExperienceCloudId`

  When the `AdobeCallbackWithError` is used, and you are retrieving the Mobile SDK values, the timeout value is 500ms; if the operation times out or is not successful, an `AdobeError` is returned.

Released with sdk-core version 1.5.0.

### Android Mobile Services 1.1.1

* Improved existing log messages and added additional logging to assist with debugging.

## January 29, 2020

The following updates were made in this release:

**Android Target 1.1.4 and iOS Target 2.1.5**

* Improved existing log messages and added additional logging to assist with debugging.

**Android Campaign 1.0.3 and iOS Campaign 1.0.5**

* Improved existing log messages and added additional logging to assist with debugging.

## January 28, 2019

The following updates were made in this release:

**Android Project Griffon 1.1.2**

* Fixed the nomenclature for the unique event identifier.

## January 25, 2020

The following updates were made in this release:

**Android Analytics 1.2.3 and iOS Analytics 2.2.2**

* `requestEventIdentifier` is now appended to all non-track events so that Lifecycle (or other extension events that are sent to Analytics) can be viewed with rich detail in Project Griffon.

## January 24, 2020

The following updates were made in this release:

**Android Project Griffon 1.1.1**

* The Griffon SDK now reports an event's source, type, sequence number and timestamp for every event.
* The Griffon SDK adds and reports `uniqueIdentifier` associated with eventHub events. This update is effective from Mobile Core version 1.4.2
* Removed unwanted resource files that were creating compilation error.
* Improved logging to assist with debugging.

## January 23, 2020

The following updates were made in this release:

**Android Mobile Services 1.1.0**

* The shared state of the Profile extension can now be used as the traits for In-App Messaging.
* Added a new API, `MobileServices.processGooglePlayInstallReferrerUrl(final String url)`, to support Google Play Install Referrer APIs.

  For more information about the Install Referrer APIs, see [Still Using InstallBroadcast? Switch to the Play Referrer API by March 1, 2020](https://android-developers.googleblog.com/2019/11/still-using-installbroadcast-switch-to.html).

## January 13, 2020

The following updates were made in this release:

**Android Project Griffon 1.1.0**

* The Griffon bridge and the Griffon SDK are now unified.

  The set up steps are now slightly different. For more information, see [Set up Project Griffon](../platform-assurance/set-up.md).

* The Adobe Analytics debug flag is now enabled when you start a Griffon session and is disabled when you end the session.
* The client-side Griffon UI now logs Location Service entry and exit events.
* Modified the client UI to include client-side logging capabilities.
* Fixed an issue for Android API version 28 or later where multiple WebViews cannot share the same data directory.
* Added generic exception handling for exceptions that can occur when WebViews are accessed while OS is updating Chrome.

The Project Griffon web UI now has new views specifically for users who are trying to inspect and improve Adobe Analytics and Location Service (Places) implementations.

**Adobe Analytics View**

The new Adobe Analytics view shows you events that are only related to your Adobe Analytics implementation. The list view now displays the action/state name and event, `status`, with a newly formatted detail view. `status` tells you when an SDK event is generated (processed), whether the SDK has made a network request with Adobe Analytics (queued), and whether post-processing information about the event (validated) is returned. This information helps you determine whether your context data is being appropriately mapped in Adobe Analytics.

The detailed view for an Analytics track event contains the following parts:

* The originating SDK Analytics request event.
* The OOTB meta and context data from the request, such as the report suite ID, the SDK extension versions, the OOTB context data, and so on.
* The post-processed information on the Analytics event, which contains mapping of revars, evars, props, and so on.

For more information, see [Adobe Analytics and Project Griffon](../platform-assurance/tutorials/adobe-analytics.md).

**Location Service (Places) View**

The new Location Services views allow you to inspect location entry and exit events on the Project Griffon web UI and on a mobile device. Depending on your business workflows, these views provide a convenient interface to view location-specific data points for inspection on the web/client for in-context debugging.

For more information, see [Location Service and Project Griffon](../platform-assurance/tutorials/places-service.md).
