---
description: Archived Release Notes for 2022
---

# 2022

## November 11, 2022

### iOS AEPCore 3.7.3

* Fixed a bug in AEPIdentity where CustomerIdentities with the same type could cause a crash.

## October 27, 2022

### iOS AEPCore 3.7.2

* Added location hint result to EventSource keys for Edge.
* Fixed a bug preventing in-app messages from being dismissed in some situations.
* Added Target identities to MobileCore.getSDKIdentities response.

## October 26, 2022

### AEP Flutter plugins for Edge Network

The following AEP Flutter plugins have been published:

* [flutter_aepedge@1.0.0](https://pub.dev/packages/flutter_aepedge)
* [flutter_aepedgeidentity@1.0.0](https://pub.dev/packages/flutter_aepedgeidentity)
* [flutter_aepedgeconsent@1.0.0](https://pub.dev/packages/flutter_aepedgeconsent)

## October 25, 2022

### iOS AEPEdgeBridge 1.0.0

The `Adobe Experience Platform Mobile SDK - Edge Bridge` extension is now available for iOS!

With this release, the extension enables a drop-in solution for converting Core track API (trackAction & trackState) generated events into Edge Network events. This extension may be used to easily route existing track calls, that may have been implemented for Adobe Analytics, to Edge Network. The configured Data Collection datastream for the mobile application can define a mapping of the track event's `contextdata` to an XDM schema using [Data Prep for Data Collection](https://experienceleague.adobe.com/docs/platform-learn/data-collection/edge-network/data-prep.html) to route data to Adobe Analytics, Adobe Experience Platform, or to 3rd party vendors via server-side event forwarding.

For an end-to-end guide on how to use the extension, see the [Edge Bridge tutorial](https://github.com/adobe/aepsdk-edgebridge-ios/blob/main/Documentation/tutorials/edge-bridge-tutorial.md).

## October 24, 2022

### Android Edge Bridge 1.0.0

The `Adobe Experience Platform Mobile SDK - Edge Bridge` extension is now available for Android!

With this release, the extension enables a drop-in solution for converting Core track API (trackAction & trackState) generated events into Edge Network events. This extension may be used to easily route existing track calls, that may have been implemented for Adobe Analytics, to Edge Network. The configured Data Collection datastream for the mobile application can define a mapping of the track event's `contextdata` to an XDM schema using [Data Prep for Data Collection](https://experienceleague.adobe.com/docs/platform-learn/data-collection/edge-network/data-prep.html) to route data to Adobe Analytics, Adobe Experience Platform, or to 3rd party vendors via server-side event forwarding.

For an end-to-end guide on how to use the extension, see the [Edge Bridge tutorial](https://github.com/adobe/aepsdk-edgebridge-android/blob/main/Documentation/tutorials/edge-bridge-tutorial.md).

## October 19, 2022

### iOS AEPEdge 1.5.0

* Adds support for persisting the location hint returned by the Edge Network for the duration of the session for an improved user experience. Includes new APIs `getLocationHint` and `setLocationHint` allowing hybrid applications to share the location hint across SDKs.

### Android Edge 1.4.0

* Adds support for persisting the location hint returned by the Edge Network for the duration of the session for an improved user experience. Includes new APIs `getLocationHint` and `setLocationHint` allowing hybrid applications to share the location hint across SDKs.

## October 11, 2022

### iOS AEPPlaces 3.0.2

* Non-string values in Point of Interest metadata are now correctly handled.

## September 1, 2022

### iOS Campaign Classic 3.0.0

* Initial release to support [Adobe Campaign Classic workflows](./index.md) for Adobe Experience Platform Mobile SDKs on iOS in Swift. This extension library is available as an [open source project on GitHub](https://github.com/adobe/aepsdk-campaignclassic-ios/).

## June 30, 2022

### iOS AEPAnalytics 3.2.0

* Added tvOS support.

### iOS AEPMedia 3.1.0

* Added tvOS support.

## June 16, 2022

### iOS AEPCore 3.7.0

* Added tvOS support.
* Fixed a few race conditions in the EventHub and MobileCore.
* Made changes in AEPIdentity to speed up boot.

## June 10, 2022

### Adobe Journey Optimizer - Decisioning extension 1.0.0

`Adobe Journey Optimizer - Decisioning` extension is now available in the extensions catalog on the Data Collection UI for mobile Tag Properties. No configuration is necessary for this extension.  

## June 9, 2022

### Android Optimize 1.0.0

The `Adobe Experience Platform Mobile SDK - Optimize` extension is now available for Android!

This extension enables real-time personalization workflows in your mobile applications when using Adobe Target and/or Adobe Journey Optimizer Offer Decisioning.

**Key Features**

With this release, the extension provides APIs that you can use to:

* Fetch personalized offers from the decisioning services enabled in the datastreams e.g. Adobe Target, Adobe Journey Optimizer Offer Decisioning.
* Track user interactions with those offers.

## June 7, 2022

### iOS AEPEdgeIdentity 1.1.0

* Added the `getUrlVariables` API to support passing the visitor ID from a mobile app to a web view.
* Added support for advertising identifier and ad tracking consent collection.

### Android EdgeIdentity 1.1.0

* Added the `getUrlVariables` API to support passing the visitor ID from a mobile app to a web view.
* Added support for advertising identifier and ad tracking consent collection.
* Internal fixes for IdentityMap deserialization.

## June 2, 2022

### iOS AEPEdge 1.4.1

* Updates the consent request to use "update" query operation in order to allow for incremental consent preferences changes.
* Internal updates to use URLComponents builder for Edge endpoints.

### Android Edge 1.3.2

* Updates the consent request to use "update" query operation in order to allow for incremental consent preferences changes.
* Updates internal network stack to use Mobile Core's ServiceProvider Network Service, reducing overall extension code size.

## May 27, 2022

### iOS AEPOptimize 1.0.0

The `Adobe Experience Platform Mobile SDK - Optimize` extension is now available for iOS!

This extension enables real-time personalization workflows in your mobile applications when using Adobe Target and/or Adobe Journey Optimizer Offer Decisioning.

**Key Features**

With this release, the extension provides APIs that you can use to:

* Fetch personalized offers from the decisioning services enabled in the datastreams e.g. Adobe Target, Adobe Journey Optimizer Offer Decisioning.
* Track user interactions with those offers.

## May 26, 2022

### iOS AEPTarget 3.1.3

* Fixed an issue where the Target display notification was not being sent to the server, upon invoking `displayedLocations` API, if a prior prefetch call did not return profile state token for the mbox.

## May 24, 2022

### iOS Analytics 2.5.2

* Fixed a bug for the integration with Assurance where "No Debug Flag" was showing in the UI for some events.

## May 18, 2022

### iOS AEPAudience 3.0.4

* Fixed an issue where lifecycle data was included in signalWithData requests.

## May 12, 2022

### iOS AEPAnalytics 3.1.0

* Added support for using the Analytics Extension in [App Extensions](https://developer.apple.com/app-extensions/)

## May 9, 2022

### iOS AEPCore 3.6.0

* Added support for using the Core SDK in [App Extensions.](https://developer.apple.com/app-extensions/)
* Added a new API to the Extension protocol for getting the latest non-pending shared state.
* Added support for using Bundled Rules.
* Added support for cached images for Fullscreen Messages.
* Fixed a bug preventing Fullscreen Messages from being dismissed in certain conditions.

### iOS AEPAudience 3.0.3

- Fixed integration with Lifecycle extension to send lifecycle metrics when a new app session is started.

## April 12, 2022

### AEP React Native plugins

The following AEP SDK React Native plugins have been published:

 - @adobe/react-native-aepcore@1.0.0
 - @adobe/react-native-aepuserprofile@1.0.0
 - @adobe/react-native-aepassurance@3.0.0
 - @adobe/react-native-aepedge@1.0.0
 - @adobe/react-native-aepedgeconsent@1.0.0
 - @adobe/react-native-aepedgeidentity@1.0.0

For more details, see the documentation and release notes in the [aepsdk-react-native repository](https://github.com/adobe/aepsdk-react-native).

## April 8, 2022

### iOS AEPCore 3.5.0

* Adds two APIs to `Date+Format` class. Method `getISO8601UTCDateWithMilliseconds` formats a Date to string as with fractional seconds and UTC time zone, while `getISO8601FullDate` formats a Date to string with date without time using the local time zone.
* Lifecycle foreground and background events for Edge Network now format timestamps with fractional seconds and UTC time zone.
* Updates the timestamp format for rule token `~timestampp` with fractional seconds and UTC time zone. This rule token is used to set the mobile property data element "Adobe Experience Platform Timestamp".
* Improves Signal logging by treating all 2xx network responses as success.
* Fixes bug where dispatched events failed due to use of single quotes in name.
* Fixes format of push token string by uppercasing characters.

### iOS AEPEdge 1.4.0

* Updates timestamp in Experience Events to use fractional seconds.
* Deprecates APIs `XDMFormatters.dateToISO8601String` and `XDMFormatters.dateToFullDateString`. Use the `Date` extension methods `getISO8601UTCDateWithMilliseconds` and `getISO8601FullDate` instead, provided by the AEPServices module within the AEPCore extension.

### iOS AEPEdgeConsent 1.0.1

* Updates timestamp in Consent requests to use fractional seconds.

## April 1, 2022

### iOS AEPEdgeIdentity 1.0.1

* Synchronized updates and reads on the Identity for Edge Network shared state to avoid any race conditions.

### Adobe Experience Platform Edge Network tag extension v1.1.9

* UI updates for the Datastream configuration section to enable the sandbox aware datastreams support. If more than one sandbox is used, a sandbox picker is displayed to allow for datastreams selection across sandboxes.

* Auto-complete in the UI for default third party domain based on company name for Edge Network data collection. The domain configuration is now required, while existing configurations will continue to use the default edge.adobedc.net domain.

### Adobe Journey Optimizer tag extension v0.0.16

* UI updates to support the new datastream selections in the AEP Edge Network extension.

## March 31, 2022

### iOS AEPAnalytics 3.0.4

* Fixed `getTrackingIdentifier` and `getVisitorIdentifier` APIs to `return nil` instead of `AEPError.unexpected` error when AID/VID values are not found in persistence.

## March 30, 2022

## End of support for Adobe Experience Platform Mobile SDK plugins for Unity

* Effective March 30, 2022, support for Adobe Experience Platform Mobile SDKs on Unity is no longer active. While you may continue using our libraries, Adobe no longer plans to update, modify, or provide support for these libraries. Please contact your Adobe CSM for details.

## February 22, 2022

### iOS Assurance 3.0.1

* Add support for transmitting large events.
* Assurance extension now prompts an error message when attempting to connect to a deleted session.
* Improved logging for troubleshooting.
* Fixed an issue to ensure that event collection stops on session disconnection.

## February 14, 2022

### iOS Identity 2.5.2

* Fixes intermittent issue for GetUrlVariables and AppendToUrl APIs when custom Analytics identifiers are being used.

## February 9, 2022

### iOS Campaign Standard 3.0.1

* Fixed an issue with the Campaign message tracking URL being incorrectly built.

## February 3, 2022

### iOS AEPServices 3.4.2

* Add `@objc` attribute to `messageSettings` in `FullscreenMessage`

## January 26, 2022

### iOS AEPCore 3.4.1

* Fixed AEPRulesEngine dependency in Package.swift

## January 21, 2022

### iOS AEPEdge 1.3.0

* Allows setting a custom first-party domain that is used to interact with the mapped Adobe-provisioned Edge Network domain.

### Android AEPEdge 1.3.0

* Allows setting a custom first-party domain that is used to interact with the mapped Adobe-provisioned Edge Network domain.

## January 20, 2022

### iOS AEPCore 3.4.0

* Added support for a new API `clearUpdatedConfiguration()`, see Configuration API reference for more details.
* Added support for optionally capturing event history on the device.
* Added support for triggering rules engine conditions based on event history.

### iOS AEPServices 3.4.0

* Expanded configuration options for Fullscreen Messages.
* Added support for delegating in-app message delivery.